---
title: 319. Bulb Switcher
parent: brain_teaser
has_children: false
nav_order: 5
permalink: /docs/319
---
# 319. Bulb Switcher
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/bulb-switcher/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
5

**notes**

## Description
There are n bulbs that are initially off. You first turn on all the bulbs. Then, you turn off every second bulb. On the third round, you toggle every third bulb (turning on if it's off or turning off if it's on). For the i-th round, you toggle every i bulb. For the n-th round, you only toggle the last bulb. Find how many bulbs are on after n rounds.

Example:

Input: 3
Output: 1 
Explanation: 
At first, the three bulbs are [off, off, off].
After first round, the three bulbs are [on, on, on].
After second round, the three bulbs are [on, off, on].
After third round, the three bulbs are [on, off, off]. 

So you should return 1, because there is only one bulb is on.

## Solution
See [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/bulb-switcher/discuss/77133/My-0-ms-C%2B%2B-solution-with-explanation)

Explanation:

A light will be toggled only during the round of its factors, e.g. number 6 light will be toggled at 1,2,3,6 and light 12 will be toggled at 1,2,3,4,6,12. The final state of a light is on and off only depends on if the number of its factor is odd or even. If odd, the light is on and if even the light is off. The number of one number's factor is odd if and only if it is a perfect square!
So we will only need to loop to find all the perfect squares that are smaller than n!

Take 18 and 16 as an example: 18 has factor pairs of [1,18], [2,9], [3,6] while 16 as factor pairs of [1,16], [2,8], [4], as you can see, perfect squares will always have a factor pair that contains only one number which makes it perfect squares.

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int bulbSwitch(int n) {
        return sqrt(n);
    }
};
```

<!-- 
Blue label
{: .label .label-blue }

Stable
{: .label .label-green }

New release
{: .label .label-purple }

Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }

Deprecated
{: .label .label-red } -->
