---
title: 470. Implement Rand10() Using Rand7()
parent: brain_teaser
has_children: false
nav_order: 5
permalink: /docs/470
---
# 470. Implement Rand10() Using Rand7()
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-rand10-using-rand7/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
5

**notes**

## Description
Given a function rand7 which generates a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 7, write a function rand10 which generates a uniform random integer in the range 1 to 10.

Do NOT use system's Math.random().

 

Example 1:

Input: 1
Output: [7]
Example 2:

Input: 2
Output: [8,4]
Example 3:

Input: 3
Output: [8,1,10]
 

Note:

rand7 is predefined.
Each testcase has one argument: n, the number of times that rand10 is called.
 

Follow up:

What is the expected value for the number of calls to rand7() function?
Could you minimize the number of calls to rand7()?

## Solution
explanation from [link](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-rand10-using-rand7/discuss/150301/Three-line-Java-solution-the-idea-can-be-generalized-to-%22Implement-RandM()-Using-RandN()%22)

Think of rand7() as having a 7 sided die.
Since we need rand10() (a 10 sided die) and 10 is greater than 7, we need to roll the 7 sided die multiple times.
Rolling the 7 sided die twice yields 49 different combinations:
(1,1)
(1,2)
(1,3)
...
(7,7)

Now we need to distinguish between these 49 different outcomes somehow. How can we map our two 7 sided die rolls to these different outcome numbers (1-49)?
The first thing that comes to mind is to multiply the two numbers in each tuple together. But that results in a non-uniform distribution because you would get
(1,1) = 1
(1,2) = 2
(2,1) = 2
See how the outcome of "2" has a chance of appearing twice, whereas the outcome of "1" has a chance of appearing once? This is because multiplication does not care about order.

One way to fix this problem is to think of each dice roll as the row/col of a 7x7 matrix.

  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
So position (1,1) maps to outcome 1.
Position (1,2) maps to outcome 2.
...
Position (1,7) maps to outcome 7.
Position (2,1) maps to outcome 8.
How do we get this number using math for a given (x,y) position?
7(x-1) + y

So why does OP do 7(x-1) + (y-1) ?
Because it makes %10 cleaner. Instead of making the outcome space 1-49. The OP makes it 0-48. You could keep it as 1-49 but as you can see:
1
11
21
31

10
20
30
40

Your code would have to look like this:

return result%10 === 0 ? 10 : result%10;
So this is a small optimization (please correct me if I'm wrong).
Now as for why we keep rolling until we have an outcome below 40 is because every outcome has the same chance of being rolled, so we re-roll until we are inside the outcome space we desire (0-39).

If you have a 6 sided die and want to simulate a coin flip (2 sided die), you can either re-roll the 6 sided die until the outcome is a 1 or 2.
Or you can map outcomes 1,3,5 to 2 and 2,4,6 to 1 using the formula x%2 + 1.
Hopefully that helps.


```c++
// The rand7() API is already defined for you.
// int rand7();
// @return a random integer in the range 1 to 7

class Solution {
public:
    int rand10() {
        int res = 40;
        while (res >= 40){
            res = 7*(rand7()-1) + rand7() - 1;
        }
        return res%10 + 1;
    }
};
```

<!-- 
Blue label
{: .label .label-blue }

Stable
{: .label .label-green }

New release
{: .label .label-purple }

Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }

Deprecated
{: .label .label-red } -->
