---
title: 1049. Last Stone Weight II
permalink: /docs/1049
nav_order: 5
parent: DP
has_children: false
---
# 1049. Last Stone Weight II
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/last-stone-weight-ii/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
5
**notes**   

## Description
We have a collection of rocks, each rock has a positive integer weight.

Each turn, we choose any two rocks and smash them together.  Suppose the stones have weights x and y with x <= y.  The result of this smash is:

If x == y, both stones are totally destroyed;
If x != y, the stone of weight x is totally destroyed, and the stone of weight y has new weight y-x.
At the end, there is at most 1 stone left.  Return the smallest possible weight of this stone (the weight is 0 if there are no stones left.)

 

Example 1:

Input: [2,7,4,1,8,1]
Output: 1
Explanation: 
We can combine 2 and 4 to get 2 so the array converts to [2,7,1,8,1] then,
we can combine 7 and 8 to get 1 so the array converts to [2,1,1,1] then,
we can combine 2 and 1 to get 1 so the array converts to [1,1,1] then,
we can combine 1 and 1 to get 0 so the array converts to [1] then that's the optimal value.
 

Note:

1 <= stones.length <= 30
1 <= stones[i] <= 100

## Solution
another Knapsacks problem. 
related problems:
- [416. Partition Equal Subset Sum](/docs/416)

Think about group stones to 2 big group, add each group together, then do a giant snap. in order to get min result, the difference between two groups should be as small as possible.

Thus, the problem becomes, find closest sum from one of the group to sum/2.
We can assume we are looking for the smaller group so its sum is at most sum/2;
dp[i] = 1 if i as sum is possible for this group.

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int lastStoneWeightII(vector<int>& stones) {
        bitset<1501> dp = {1}; // dp[i] is 1 if i as sum is achievable.
        int sum = 0;
        for (auto stone : stones){
            sum += stone;
            for (int i = min(1500,sum); i >= stone; i--){
                dp[i] = dp[i] + dp[i-stone];
            }
        }
        for (int j = sum/2; j >= 0; j--){
            if(dp[j]){
                return (sum-j) - j;
            }
        }
        return 0; // should never hit here
    }
};
```