---
title: 1352. Product of the Last K Numbers
permalink: /docs/1352
nav_order: 4
parent: data_structure
has_children: false
---
# 1352. Product of the Last K Numbers
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/product-of-the-last-k-numbers/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
4

**notes**   


## Description
Implement the class ProductOfNumbers that supports two methods:

1. add(int num)

Adds the number num to the back of the current list of numbers.
2. getProduct(int k)

Returns the product of the last k numbers in the current list.
You can assume that always the current list has at least k numbers.
At any time, the product of any contiguous sequence of numbers will fit into a single 32-bit integer without overflowing.

 

Example:

Input
["ProductOfNumbers","add","add","add","add","add","getProduct","getProduct","getProduct","add","getProduct"]
[[],[3],[0],[2],[5],[4],[2],[3],[4],[8],[2]]

Output
[null,null,null,null,null,null,20,40,0,null,32]

Explanation
ProductOfNumbers productOfNumbers = new ProductOfNumbers();
productOfNumbers.add(3);        // [3]
productOfNumbers.add(0);        // [3,0]
productOfNumbers.add(2);        // [3,0,2]
productOfNumbers.add(5);        // [3,0,2,5]
productOfNumbers.add(4);        // [3,0,2,5,4]
productOfNumbers.getProduct(2); // return 20. The product of the last 2 numbers is 5 * 4 = 20
productOfNumbers.getProduct(3); // return 40. The product of the last 3 numbers is 2 * 5 * 4 = 40
productOfNumbers.getProduct(4); // return 0. The product of the last 4 numbers is 0 * 2 * 5 * 4 = 0
productOfNumbers.add(8);        // [3,0,2,5,4,8]
productOfNumbers.getProduct(2); // return 32. The product of the last 2 numbers is 4 * 8 = 32 
 

Constraints:

There will be at most 40000 operations considering both add and getProduct.
0 <= num <= 100
1 <= k <= 40000

## Solution
Like prefix sum, this is prefix product.

```c++
class ProductOfNumbers {
private:
    vector<int> arr = { 1 };
public:
    ProductOfNumbers() {
    }
    
    void add(int num) {
        if (num == 0){
            arr = { 1 };
        }
        else{
            arr.push_back(arr.back() * num);
        }
    }
    
    int getProduct(int k) {
        int n = arr.size(); // real size is n-1, first 1 in arr should not be counted
        return k > (n-1) ? 0 : (arr.back()/arr[n-1-k]);
    }
};
```

<!-- 
Default label
{: .label }

Blue label
{: .label .label-blue }

Stable
{: .label .label-green }

New release
{: .label .label-purple }

Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }

Deprecated
{: .label .label-red } -->
