---
title: 362. Design Hit Counter
permalink: /docs/362
parent: data_structure
has_children: false
nav_order: 99
---
# 362. Design Hit Counter
[leetcode link](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hit-counter/)

**difficulty(1-5)** 
4

**notes**   


## Description
Design a hit counter which counts the number of hits received in the past 5 minutes.

Each function accepts a timestamp parameter (in seconds granularity) and you may assume that calls are being made to the system in chronological order (ie, the timestamp is monotonically increasing). You may assume that the earliest timestamp starts at 1.

It is possible that several hits arrive roughly at the same time.
```
Example:

HitCounter counter = new HitCounter();

// hit at timestamp 1.
counter.hit(1);

// hit at timestamp 2.
counter.hit(2);

// hit at timestamp 3.
counter.hit(3);

// get hits at timestamp 4, should return 3.
counter.getHits(4);

// hit at timestamp 300.
counter.hit(300);

// get hits at timestamp 300, should return 4.
counter.getHits(300);

// get hits at timestamp 301, should return 3.
counter.getHits(301); 
```

**Follow up:**
What if the number of hits per second could be very large? Does your design scale?

## Solution

The idea is quite simple, we use a queue to keep track of the hits, and each element in the queue is a pair of timestamp $t and the cnt of the hits at time $t. And we use a counter to keep track of the number of hits within 300s.
When a hit comes, we need to maintain the queue and pop the (timestamp, hit_cnt) pair iff it is not in last 300 second.
Since it take O(1) to push/pop each element in queue and each element only goes into the queue once, the time complexity of all operations is O(1) in an aggregated sense.

NOTE that it's `(q.front() + 300 <= t)`

```c++
class HitCounter {
private:
    queue<int> q;
    int t; // current t
    
    // pop any earlier (head of queue) timestamps that is not
    // within [t - 300, t]
    void update_q() {
        while (!q.empty() && (q.front() + 300 <= t)) {
            q.pop();
        }
    }
public:
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    HitCounter() {
        t = 0;
    }
    
    /** Record a hit.
        @param timestamp - The current timestamp (in seconds granularity). */
    /* because timestamp is monotonically increasing so queue is enough.
    otherwise we need something such as priority queue to sort.
    */
    void hit(int timestamp) {
        t = timestamp;
        q.push(timestamp);
        update_q();        
    }
    
    /** Return the number of hits in the past 5 minutes.
        @param timestamp - The current timestamp (in seconds granularity). */
    int getHits(int timestamp) {
        t = timestamp;
        update_q();
        return q.size();
    }
};

/**
 * Your HitCounter object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * HitCounter* obj = new HitCounter();
 * obj->hit(timestamp);
 * int param_2 = obj->getHits(timestamp);
 */
```

<!-- 
Default label
{: .label }

Blue label
{: .label .label-blue }

Stable
{: .label .label-green }

New release
{: .label .label-purple }

Coming soon
{: .label .label-yellow }

Deprecated
{: .label .label-red } -->
